# Intro to Graph

## Brief explanation of what is Graph

Microsoft Graph is an API built in Office 365 that allows developers to integrate with devices, Office 365, Azure and develop more intelligent and productive applications.

Thanks to Microsoft Graph we can integrate services such as Azure AD, OneDrive, Outlook, Excel, OneNote, Intune, SharePoint or Planner and other Office products.
  
The best thing about Graph is that integration is simple via the REST API, with only a few lines of code giving access to a large amount of information.  

At the core of Microsoft Graph are the concepts of the user and group.

A user in Microsoft Graph is one of millions who use Microsoft 365 cloud services. It is critical that user identity is protected and access is well managed. The user's data is what drives business. Microsoft Graph services makes this data available to businesses in rich contexts, with real-time updates, deep insights, and always with the appropriate permissions.

An Office 365 group is the fundamental entity that lets users collaborate. It integrates with other services, enabling richer scenarios in task planning, teamwork, education, and more.

In summary, Microsoft Graph forms a network of Microsoft 365 services and features that manage, protect, and extract data to support a wide range of scenarios. Microsoft Graph lets you access this wealth of user data while always respecting proper authorization.

## Timeline

Microsoft Graph has a new future: **UserActivity**.  
User Activities generated by your application appear in Timeline. By writing User Activities into the Microsoft Graph, you can express specific content within your application as a destination which is showcased in Windows, and accessible on your iOS and Android devices.

Each User Activity represents a single destination within your app. When you engage with that activity (by creating an Activity Session), the system creates a history record indicating the start and end time for that activity. As you re-engage with that User Activity over time, multiple History Records will be recorded for a single User Activity.

When activities appear in Timeline, we display them using the [Adaptive Card](http://adaptivecards.io/) framework. You can configure these cards or if you do not provide an adaptive card, Timeline will automatically create a simple Adaptive card based in your activity. 

## Why is it useful?

Microsoft Graph, by allowing us to connect with all our Office 365 data, allows us to integrate this data into our applications easily, quickly and safely.

With Microsoft Graph we do the following:

 - Sends alerts if you're spending too much time in meetings.
 - Suggest the best time for the next team meeting according to your calendar.
 - Create a Team in Microsoft Teams for an existing office 365 Group.
 - Send a notification when people are added to Active Directory and automatically kick off employee on-boarding workflows.
 - Continue editing a document where you left off in another device .
 - Create a timeline with all your activity. 
   
These are some examples of what can be done with Graph, but you can see there are many scenarios where you can apply.

Nowadays one of the biggest uses of Microsoft Graph API is to share information between different devices, allowing us to save the information of our applications, their status, their configuration and to be able to follow exactly the same point in another device with an application developed in a different technology.

## Interesting links

There is a wealth of information about Microsoft Graph and this is a list of interesting links we recommend:

- [https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/docs/concepts/overview](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/docs/concepts/overview). Official website of Microsoft Graph where you can find all the updated documentation.

- [https://github.com/microsoftgraph](https://github.com/microsoftgraph). Microsoft Graph API Repository on GitHub. 

- [https://github.com/Microsoft/project-rome](https://github.com/Microsoft/project-rome). Project Rome's GitHub Repository, where you can find information and examples.

- [https://channel9.msdn.com/events/Build/2017/B8025](https://channel9.msdn.com/events/Build/2017/B8025). Microsoft Build 2017 video showing how to work with Project Rome and Graph
	
## Objectives of the lab

The objectives of this lab are:


- Learn what Microsoft Graph is and what it is for.
- Learn about Microsoft Graph Explorer
- Introduction to the use of Microsoft Graph API through several examples focusing on authentication, OneDrive and Outlook.
- Finally, how to prepare our application so that it will appear on Timeline and we can pick up where we left off. 